>> Kyle Simpson: So caching is kind of
the major use case that you start with,
usually with service workers, is I wanna
do something different with the caching
behavior than what normally
happens with my files.
That's what usually motivates you to say
I'm gonna writing some of this routing
logic for myself.
But caching is certainly
just scratching the surface.
If we think about the idea that
we can intercept requests.
I'm just gonna start brain storming here,
but
let's just brainstorm,
what are some things that I could do.
Imagine, if I could code
the browser itself and
make the browser do whatever I want with
my web page, what would that look like?
What are things that I could do?
Did you have an idea?
>> Student: You could
do offline computing.
So you could do work and
then when you connect it saves.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's exactly right,
and we're gonna talk a lot about that.
So you could enable this offline usecase,
that's both caching and then there's
another API that's called background
sync which we'll talk about later today.
And you could enable those
sorts of things to do,
if you've ever worked with Google Docs and
you've been editing a spreadsheet or
something and you were completely offline
and then you came back online and
it was all of a sudden had,
all the resources have been saved.
Or you were able to open up a spreadsheet
when you are offline even though you
didn't open it before when you were
online all that sort of stuff.
That's definitely we can manage
sort of offline ability.
That's a great use case.
Yeah.
>> Student2: I sit on the board of this
organization called One Village Partners
and they have workers they go out
in the villages in Sierra Leone and
they do work with the local villagers and
record data.
And wanna be able to do that and
come back with it,
cuz they don't always have good
internet connection out there,
and they use a software package
that requires the internet.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, so if that software
package were employing a service worker
then it could be storing
that kind of information.
I want to make it clear that we've
had the ability to store data
in web pages persistently, for decades.
We've had local storage,
we've had session storage.
We've had index dB, which we're gonna talk
about later and other web database stuff.
So the idea of storing some data
that's been collected somewhere
in a web page is not new and
it's not new to service workers.
But particularly what's new at the same
time as we got service workers,
is we now have this caching API.
And by the way the caching API is not
only exposed to your service worker.
You can actually access the cache
API from your web page.
You won't be able to do nearly as much
with it in a web page, because you're not
doing the same kinds of request intercept
that you're doing in a service worker.
That magic part isn't happening.
But you could literally look in
the cash inside of your web page, and
see whether or
not something was already cached.
And because you have access to
the cache API from your page
before an outbound request
has even gone out.
That's something you can't do
with a normal browser cache.
You don't know if something's cached.
You can just request it and
either get it or not.
But now with cache API we can tell
what's programmatically in there.
Those are exactly right, so storing data,
storing web resources like our HTML and
CSS files,
storing those in this offline ability way,
that's a major primary use
case of service workers.
Yeah?
>> Student: So, back to your point that,
that existed though, you could do it, but
I think to me the part that I'm interested
in is the set it and forget it part,
where I can do that and I don't have
to remember to come back and sync it.
One of the things,
like I said, I work for the U,
and we want to do some kind of an app for
check in, if there's an emergency,
which would obviously
heavily impact services.
So for people that are off site or
somewhere around the world for
them to be able to check in but
as intermittent services come in,
the app could be checking and
registering location.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Student: Versus them
sitting in there and waiting.
And waiting and waiting, it didn't work,
didn't work, didn't work and we try.
So to me that's the piece that
I'm looking for is that fill in.
>> Kyle Simpson: So there's a bunch
of nuance in what you just mentioned,
some of which I'll
briefly touch on here and
some of which we'll touch on as we come
back towards the end of the workshop.
So number one you mentioned the idea
of capturing somebody's location.
Only the web page can do that.
And only if the user has actively
granted access to geolocation.
So a service worker does not have
access to your location, and
it can't track your
location in the background.
So for example,
if somebody had GPS connection but
didn't have a WiFi connection for
some reason, then you could have captured
their current GPS coordinate, and
then saved that into local storage or
index DB or something like that.
And then at a later time when you
detect that they're online and
they have a WiFi connection You
could ajax that off to a server.
But that won't be the same thing as
saying where are they currently now,
it'll only be saying where were
they eight hours ago or whatever?
>> Student: Yeah, I'm not looking for
that, I'm looking for
an app that they would check in, that they
would do it, or actively do a check in.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Student: But maybe they don't
have access so they can't,
it doesn't get to us.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's just that location
data is usually kind of time sensitive.
And the idea of background sync cuz
you can't predict, it could be days or
weeks before they were ever in a place
where it just automatically kicked in.
So the other thing about, so
just just to make sure we're clear,
there are use cases.
In fact, the app that I was
talking about that I built,
I want to be able to track where my
location is even if the app's not open.
That's a thing that you might wanna be
able to do for convenience, not for
annoyance or for privacy purposes, I just
want, when I walk into a restaurant,
I want it to pop up and say here's
your notes from this restaurant.
I wanna be able to notice my location and
even if it's literally just me,
I would like that option and that API
literally doesn't exist right now.
Because of privacy concerns,
your native apps on your Android or
iOS devices, they have very limited
capability of tracking your
background location running in
the background of various services.
It's quite complex to build that and they
haven't exposed that at all to the web
layer, and they probably not ever
gonna expose it to the web layer,
cuz they're worried that websites will
somehow abuse that sort of information.
So there are reasons why you might
want to keep somebody's information
about their location in the background,
and that's just not possible right now.
So from my app I'm
considering having my web app
have a helper native app that's installed
that does the background tracking.
And there's always a remote that data
over to the web app or something.
But that's not a thing that the web
platform has and may never have.
People have asked for
APIs like geofencing, which is saying,
I don't wanna know exactly where somebody
is, but can I pre-set some geometric
coordinate that when they either enter or
leave that area, I get notified.
And there was a proposal to have
geofencing and then that was for
all other privacy reasons
also didn't happen that way.
At least not exposed to the web layer.
So understanding the limitations
where somebody might be able to,
it's not terribly common that somebody
has GPS but doesn't have internet.
Usually if they don't have internet,
they're not able to do
the triangulation with the GPS.
But if they're in that situation where for
some reason they don't have WiFi but
they do have a legitimate GPS coordinate,
you could in theory store that, store it
with a time stamp and then just the caveat
that, hey, this data is three hours old,
but at least we know three hours ago
where they were, or something like that.
The other thing to understand
about background sync, and
we're going to get more into
this again at the end, but
in background sync that is basically
saying to the service worker,
I have a thing that I want to have
happen and you can't complete it now.
And it might be that we
shut down the tab entirely,
like the browsers,
the tab is gone or whatever.
But in the background I want you to
try to see whether or not I've come
back online and make that request on
my behalf even if the page isn't there.
That's sort of the dream of this.
Background sync is a spec and it's been
in parts implemented in one browser.
It's not a reality across
the web right now and
it may never be, because there again or
a bunch of potential ways that that
could end up getting abused or whatever.
But there's somewhat lesser forms of
background sync like storing things
persistently, so if they come back
to it there data is still there.
And that's what we're gonna do,
we're not gonna do background sync today.
I just wanted to point out there
are a bunch of caveats to this,
I wish we had perfect everything.
But we have to balance that against
privacy and abuse concerns.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me throw
out some other ideas for
what we could do if we were intercepting
outbound requests from a website.
We can do transparent URL rewriting.
So we can have a web page that's
requesting an image from one location,
maybe from one CDN, and the service worker
might have decided that that CDN is down
because another request failed, and
it might rewrite it to
a different CDN location.
And request it from there instead of
from the place that was asked for.
So then you didn't have
to update the HTML,
it was just sort of transparently
load balancing the different CDNs.
You can have
programmatically created content
that's responded to from the client.
So for example, if you are offline and
somebody makes an Ajax request to get some
data, you might be able to just create
an artificial JSON response from your
code and your service worker and
send it back to the web page and
the web page won't know any different.
It'll think that it just
got it from the server, but
now it was data that was artificially
constructed and sent back.
Or you could have used a cached
response to it like we talked about.
So the idea of using cache means that when
you're clicking around the user thing,
it looks like I'm online,
even if they're not online because they're
still getting HTML and Ajax and
all that other stuff back.
You can do even more sophisticated things.
For example,
if a web page requests a single file,
let's say it requests a single image file,
the service worker could say I
know that because they requested
that image file they're also likely
to request these other things.
So I'm gonna go head and
request these other things on behalf of
the page, get them primed and ready, so
sort of a programmatic pre-fetching kind
of thing that the web page doesn't even
know is happening, but the service
worker is doing in the background.
You could go even one step further.
When they request a single image,
you could actually force
multiple resources to the page.
So you could respond with the one
image and then, because it's a worker,
you could send a message to the page that
tells the page to ask for more resources.
So that's like dependency injection.
You've asked for this one thing, I know
you need these other three things as well,
so I'm gonna give you all four things
even though you only asked for one.
So, there's all kinds of
sophisticated stuff that we can do
when we have programmatic control over
every outbound request from a page.
And there's probably a dozen others
that we're not talking about here.